Disgraced executives, dramatic weather rescues
and massive data breaches have one thing in common.
They describe crises that force businesses
to take fast action.
And at the heart of any crisis,
a leader must navigate unexpected changes
to keep their team, employees and companies
safe as possible.
A crisis is an unexpected event that could potentially
harm a business and its employees, customers, and vendors.
Leading through a crisis requires fast action and change.
Often, those changes have long lasting
business implications.
The COVID 19 pandemic is a prime example
of an unexpected disruption
that resulted in permanent changes.
Companies had to adopt new business models overnight
and many of these changes remain in place today.
All change creates stress and requires strong leadership
to rise above it yet a crisis calls
for a slightly different approach.
These tips can help.
First, prioritize communication.
Get from reliable sources and share it
as soon as possible with frequent updates.
Next, model positivity, stay grounded and calm
to help others see the light at the end of the tunnel.
Third, lead with confidence.
Take swift action and bounce back quickly
when the water gets rough.
Expect tough spot and discouraged employees.
It's your job to recognize struggles
but maintain perspective.
Doing so makes it easier
for your team to keep moving forward.
The next tip is to trust your people.
Lean on departmental experts and give them autonomy
to make decisions and keep things moving.
Fifth, toggle between here and now
and big picture thinking.
As you take action today,
be sure to consider future impacts,
Next, get in the trenches.
Don't lead from a boardroom.
Be accessible, working alongside
and in support of your team.
Finally, when the worst has passed,
look for the lessons learned.
A post-crisis analysis helps determine changes
and preventative measures moving forward.
Whether it's a crisis ripped from the headlines
or a minor disruption,
when change suddenly occurs, it's tough.
Leading with humanity, positivity
and transparency will help the company and your team
weather the storm.
Connecting to a common goal and working together
will see you through.